SOURCE: https://docs.gpcrdb.org/structures.html (Structure descriptors), retrieved 2026-09-11

Activation state definition The activation state of the structures are defined on the distances between all Cα atoms for residues on the intracellular half of each of the seven transmembrane helices. These distances are also used for the generation of the Structural similarity trees . For each class, structures in complex with a signaling protein are are set as the reference structures for the active state(100% degree activation). Subsequently, structures with a highly closed conformation are set as the reference structures for the inactive state (0% degree activation) based on a maximum distance between 2x46 to 6x37 for all classes except for class F for which the distance between 2x44 to 6x31 is used (maximum distances are 11.9Å, 13Å, 14.5Å, 13Å for classes A, B, C, and F, respectively). The Cα atom distance pairs for each structure are compared to the reference structures and the mean distance to the active structures and the mean distance to the inactive structures are then calculated. If a structure has a low distance to the inactive structures its state is defined as inactive , vice versa if a structure has a low distance to the active structures then its state is defined as active . However, if both are not the case then the structure is defined as intermediate . In some cases, when an unlikely conformation is encountered its state is defined as other as is now the case for the structure of the plate-activating factor receptor 5ZKP . The degree activation : These distances to the reference structure sets are then converted into an “activation score” by substracting the mean distance to the inactive-state structures from the mean distance to the active-state structures. The activation score is converted into a percentage activation based on the minimum and maximum activation scores for all structures in that class. TM6 tilt The TM6 tilt measure is defined based on the distance between the Ca atoms for the residues 2x46 and 6x37 for all classes except for class F for which the distance between 2x44 and 6x31 is used. For each structure, this distance (when the residues are present) is converted into a percentage by comparing it to the minimum and maximum distance observed in any other structure for that specific class. 
